README.md, before:

# GR 8bit Computer

This is an 8 bit computer implemented with [Digital](https://github.com/hneemann/Digital)
The assembler and microcode generator require python

![screnshot](distribution/screenshot.png)

## Files
* gr8bit_main.dig - Main file
* *.dig - supporting digital files
* assembler.py - assembler
* microcode_writer.py - generates miucrocode for CPU's sequencer
* opcodes.py - defines all the opcodes and microcode for the system
* *.hex various rom's needed for the system


## TODO

* verify X reg operations and indexed memory
* switch zp addr mode to x-indexed mode
* update assembler syntax to turbo
* ensure flags are updated as-spec'ed for reg ops (eq/z set on inx rollover)

* Hook up a terminal (keyboard/mouse)
* Get wozmon ported over
* get remaining ALU (bit/logic) ops working

* get a 'basic' working
* hook up some 'graphical display'

## Other Notes

### CPU Flag Behaviors (design goal)

Note this means flags are (mostly!) set by the latest status of the latest register that is updated.

Z (bit 1)—Zero flag. This one's used a great deal, and basically the computer sets it when the result of any operation is zero. Load the X-register with $00, and you set the zero flag. Subtract $32 from $32, and you do the same. Many 6502 instructions affect the Z flag, and there's always a "zero or not-zero" aspect to it, but it's not always obvious to the novice when a zero condition exists. This is probably the most important of the flags, and if you master it, mastery of the others will be easy.

C (bit 0)—Carry flag. Carry is set whenever the accumulator rolls over from $FF to $00 (just like the odometer on a car, rolling over from all nines to all zeros). It's also set by various rotation and comparison instructions. The carry flag is about as important as the Z flag, and a little more mysterious, at least to me, but its operation is really rather simple.

N (bit 7)—Negative flag. (Some books call it S, for sign.) The N flag matches the high bit of the result of whatever operation the processor has just completed. If you load $FF (1111 1111) into the Y-register, for example, since the high bit of the Y-register is set, the N flag will be set, too. ML programmers make good use of the N flag. (By the way, even though this is the eighth bit, we call it bit 7, because computers start numbering things at 0.) In a computer technique called twos complement arithmetic, the high-order bit of a number is set to 1 if the number is negative, and cleared to 0 if it's positive, and that's where the N flag gets its name.

V (bit 6)—Overflow flag. This flag is important in twos complement arithmetic, but elsewhere it is rarely used. In the interest of simplicity, we'll say no more about it.

Commit message:

added smoketest to validate all opcodes
* uodated readme with more info
* added a smoketest file to test all opcodes
* started porting over wozmon
* assembler now supports <> notation for constants

README.md, after:

# GR 8bit Computer

This is an 8 bit CPU / computer inspired by the architecture of the 65xx MOS processor
family. It features an 8 bit data bus, 16 bit address space, a stack, an accumulator
register, index register and a status flag register.

The CPU is constrained to 32 control lines, and 32 instructions. 

It is implemented with [Digital](https://github.com/hneemann/Digital)
The assembler and microcode generator require python

![screnshot](distribution/screenshot.png)

## Files
* gr8bit_main.dig - Main file
* *.dig - supporting digital files
* assembler.py - assembler
* microcode_writer.py - generates miucrocode for CPU's sequencer
* opcodes.py - defines all the opcodes and microcode for the system
* *.hex various rom's needed for the system

## LICENSES

the assembler is based on another author's work - see license in the assembler file
the charmap.rom file is from https://pom1.sourceforge.net/?page=downloads and so that rom and other derivitives are GPLv2 licensed
All the rest here is my stuff and you can do with it what you will as long as you dont misrepresent me with whatever it is you do with it

## TODO

* verify X reg operations and indexed memory
* switch zp addr mode to x-indexed mode
* update assembler syntax to turbo
* ensure flags are updated as-spec'ed for reg ops (eq/z set on inx rollover)

* Hook up a terminal (keyboard/mouse)
* Get wozmon ported over
* get remaining ALU (bit/logic) ops working

* get a 'basic' working
* hook up some 'graphical display'

## Other Notes

### CPU Flag Behaviors (design goal)

Note this means flags are (mostly!) set by the latest status of the latest register that is updated.

Z (bit 1)—Zero flag. This one's used a great deal, and basically the computer sets it when the result of any operation is zero. Load the X-register with $00, and you set the zero flag. Subtract $32 from $32, and you do the same. Many 6502 instructions affect the Z flag, and there's always a "zero or not-zero" aspect to it, but it's not always obvious to the novice when a zero condition exists. This is probably the most important of the flags, and if you master it, mastery of the others will be easy.

C (bit 0)—Carry flag. Carry is set whenever the accumulator rolls over from $FF to $00 (just like the odometer on a car, rolling over from all nines to all zeros). It's also set by various rotation and comparison instructions. The carry flag is about as important as the Z flag, and a little more mysterious, at least to me, but its operation is really rather simple.

N (bit 7)—Negative flag. (Some books call it S, for sign.) The N flag matches the high bit of the result of whatever operation the processor has just completed. If you load $FF (1111 1111) into the Y-register, for example, since the high bit of the Y-register is set, the N flag will be set, too. ML programmers make good use of the N flag. (By the way, even though this is the eighth bit, we call it bit 7, because computers start numbering things at 0.) In a computer technique called twos complement arithmetic, the high-order bit of a number is set to 1 if the number is negative, and cleared to 0 if it's positive, and that's where the N flag gets its name.

V (bit 6)—Overflow flag. This flag is important in twos complement arithmetic, but elsewhere it is rarely used. In the interest of simplicity, we'll say no more about it.
